# Interview Question 

## Domain Cloud Security
_Question: Cloud Access Control_

With cloud becoming more and more prominent as companies slowly switch to a hybrid model it is imperative that this "network of the future" remains a safe secure way to store data.  The cloud offers a quick way to set up a network and share the configurations across all connected servers.  Containers and playbooks can be quickly transfered from one server to another and within a matter of seconds you can have a properly configured server up and running.

Through my most recent project I set up a cloud network containing one jump box to access my virtual network, three web servers on that virtual network and one ELK server to monitor what was happening on those three servers within the network.  One of the first tasks I had to do was create a security group which set policies that limited access to all the servers from anyone other than myself and my own personal computer.  Even with this policy in place my own computer could only access the servers originally through the jump box I created.  This was a server that allowed me to SSH into it only with my private key and from there I was able to quickly set up a docker container with ansible which was able to access the three web servers.  These servers were configured to be intentionally vulnerable, but only to those who had access to them.  Only once all servers were online and security rules were in place was I able to add a ELK server to the network which was also accessable solely from the jump box.  This server is configured with Filebeat and Metricbeat to help monitor the acitvity happening on the three web servers.

From the very beginning before any servers came online I made a simple "deny any any" rule.  This was used to help protect the virtual network and servers while it was being brought online.  Once the jump box and three web servers were online I added a rule that only allowed the web servers to be accessed from the jumpbox ansible container.  This was accomplished by generating a public key on the docker ansible container that would shared between all the servers.  My own personal host computer could not directly access the servers because I do not have the public key on my host computer.  Once again I could only access the jump box from my personal computer.  Even if I had the public key on my computer I set a rule in place that only allowed SSH services to the web servers from the public IP of the jump box.  This in a roundabout way is similar to two factor authentication as it first required my host computer to have access to the jump box via my private key, and then and only then would I have my docker containers key to access the web servers and the ELK machine.  At no time was there a direct link between my host and any webservers or ELK machine.

Access to the web servers is important as there are taking up resources in a region where they might be limited, to help alleviate any potential overload on the web servers a load balancer was added to the virtual network to ensure that if one server is being hit with an excessive amount of requests services could still continue.  TCP traffic to the servers over port 80 was added in a later security rule, but it was important that though only approved IP's could gain access to the servers.  Any outside threat will hopefully be stopped or at least extremely inconvenienced due to the inbound security rule that allowed port 80 traffic to my load balancer from my own personal host computer.  The original "deny any any" rule was removed and the servers were able to efficiently be access only by me using my own personal computer from both the commmand line via SSH and over http port 80.

One downside to setting up the environment like this though was that in order for it to be used all the measures have to be in place, the availability to broaden the access to the network even over a large company would be doable.  With the playbook and configuration files already in place on one computer, you would just need to update the "hosts" configuration file adding in the new "webservers" private IP addresses and run the playbook.  In a matter of minutes a new server would be online already properly configured identically to the others.  The playbook file could easily be modified as needed in the future and from there by simply running the peoper ansible playbook, any new configurations would then be pushed to servers.  There is no one size fits all solution for every situation, each additional computer on the network introduces a new risk, but preventing access to a network limits the availability required for a company to function.  It is important as technology continues to advance and cloud systems are developed and upgraded that those who monitor them are on keeping watch and monitoring the activity so that the servers remain healthy and accessible to those who require the services for their day to day operations.

One way a company might help protect itself is by using a Virtual Private Network.  VPN's are great for protecting information being accessed and transferred over the wire.  The encryption helps to make it so even if the data is acquired it will be encrypted to help protect confidentiality.  Though I did not build this network under the protection of my own VPN, a couple of classmates did and aquiring their IP addresses for whitelisting required additional steps that I did not have to go through, this was because the IP address they were receiving was that of their VPN and not their actual host computer.  The additional steps are there for the sake of security so for implementation within a larger company or one which deals with alot of sensitive information it would most definitely be worth the effort and time.


## Domain Network Security

_Question: Faulty Firewall_

Setting up a firewall to block unauthorized SSH connections is a very important task to ensure servers are properly secure from outsider threats.  In my most recent project access to my jump box, three web servers and an ELK server were all originally set up for access by SSH.  It is important to note though that even though these servers were accepting SSH services, there were rules set in place through my Azure security group that required proper authorization to gain access to the servers.  Any IP which was not whitelisted would not be allowed to access the servers.  Simply having the servers IP address and username of the server is not enough to SSH, each server also needed the key of a docker ansible container in order to be accessable.